<p>For this section, we used MATLAB's App Designer. You can access it by opening a new app from the 'Home' tab in MATLAB. Then, by selecting the desired icons and placing them in the desired positions, you can design the initial layout of the page.</p>

<p>In the 'Component Library' section, by selecting the 'axis' icon and dragging it onto the desired page, you can create a space for the initial image that will be uploaded and the final compressed image. Using a button, you can compress the image, for example, to perform the compression operation. The 'edit field' can be used to enter the desired variable number from the user. In this case, we consider a range from 0 to 100, representing the quality desired by the user. Using a label, we can type the desired text or display an output section showing the compression percentage, for instance. By clicking on each section, you can also change their settings, such as color, font, background color, font size, etc.</p>

<p>After adding the desired sections, you need to enter the code for each part. The various parts are explained below:</p>

<p><strong>1. function UploadimageButtonPushed(app, event):</strong> This section is called when the user clicks the "Upload Image" button and opens a file. It allows the user to select an image file. The selected image is then displayed in the UIAxes section for the original image. Specifically, <code>uigetfile('*.*', 'Pick an Image')</code> is a MATLAB function that opens a dialog box for the user to select a file. The first argument <code>'*.*'</code> specifies the file filter, allowing the user to select any file type. The second argument <code>'Pick an Image'</code> specifies the dialog box title. When the user selects a file, <code>uigetfile</code> returns the complete path and filename of the selected file as a string. Additionally, <code>filename=strcat(pathname,filename)</code> is a MATLAB function that concatenates the two strings (pathname and filename) into one string. The resulting string is stored in the <code>filename</code> variable. In this case, <code>pathname</code> is the directory path where the selected image file is located, and <code>filename</code> is the name of the selected image file. By concatenating these two strings, the complete path and filename of the selected image file are obtained and stored in the <code>filename</code> variable. This complete path and filename are then used to read the image file using the <code>imread</code> function and display it in the UIAxes for the original image.</p>

<p><strong>2. function CompressimageButtonPushed(app, event):</strong> This function is executed when the user clicks the "Compress Image" button. It first checks if an image has been uploaded using the command <code>if isempty(a)</code>. Otherwise, an error message is displayed using <code>errordlg</code>, which is often used to display error messages in graphical user interface programs to inform the user of errors that occur during program execution. If an image has been uploaded, it gets the quality value from <code>QualityEditField</code> and calls the <code>jpegcomp</code> function to compress the image using the JPEG compression algorithm. It then receives two outputs from this function: one is the compressed image displayed in the <code>UIAxes2</code> section on the right side of the screen, and the other is the compression ratio displayed in the <code>Label</code> section. The ratio is converted from a number to a string for display in the user interface.</p>

<p>Other sections follow the same process and are automatically displayed by the program. For example:</p>

<p><strong>3. app.JPEGCompressionAlgorithmLabel = uilabel(app.UIFigure):</strong> This line creates the label for the program title.</p>
